> 9 February 2025 Status Update: **WORKING**

# spotify downloader
 downloads songs from spotify by searching them on youtube along with adding meta
 
 **NOTE**:  If this projects seems ded ie. no commits for months, years, it is not. it's just working without any issues and you should probably ignore the to do list below

## Installation

install ffmpeg
if you are on linux
```
sudo apt install ffmpeg
```
1. Fork/Clone/Download this repo

```
https://github.com/Silent-Crafter/spotify-downloader
```

2. Navigate to the directory

```
cd spotify-downloader
```

3. Create a virtual environment for this project

```
python3 -m venv venv
```

4. Load the virtual environment
- On Windows Powershell: `.\venv\Scripts\activate.ps1`
- On Linux and Git Bash: `source venv/bin/activate`

5. Run
```
pip install .
```

<br>

**OR**

<br>
if you are on windows, download and extract the zip from the Releases page to a convinient location eg. C:\ , and add the location of extracted zip file to <a href="https://linuxhint.com/add-directory-to-path-environment-variables-windows/">path</a>.<br>

## Usage

**NOTE**: Any personalized spotify playlists like daily mix or artist mix will not work. You will have to fork the repo and modify the code to provide your cookies

run `python3 spotify_downloader [url]` for linux (from the same github directory)
windows users need to add `.exe` after `spotify-downloader`. i.e. `spotify_downloader.exe [url]`.
input the asked values
for path, specify the path for the directory in this fashion:

``` C:\Music\Spotify```
<br> OR
<br> ``` /home/username/Music ``` (for linux) (DONT USE ~ TO INDICATE HOME DIR)

**NOTE : Do not add a slash at the end of the directory as shown in the example**

you can also use spotify_downloader as a python module by importing it into your scripts. (Docstrings coming soon for help)

### modes
the program will ask you for mode/method.<br>
**ITS FINE IF YOU JUST LEAVE IT BLANK. THE DEFAULT MODE IS 't'** <br>

- __n__ : normal mode/method. searches song normally. <br><br>
- __t__ : topic mode/method. Searches for the music autogenerated by youtube. these don't have a video, only audio that too of the song only. DEFAULT MODE <br><br>
- __a__ : audio mode/method. add (Official Audio) to further enhance the search term for youtube. serves the same purpose as t mode. <br><br>

Recommended is the topic mode. it works for must of the time. but in case if it dosen't use n or a respectively.

## TODO

- [ ] Doctrings
- [ ] parallel downloading
